I am Tokugawa Ieyasu , born in “1542”,
as a son of the lord of the province of Mikawa.
I served as a warrior, statesman and founder
of the Tokugawa dynasty of shoguns.
I am considered by scholars as one of the
most significant figures in Japanese history.
At the time of my birth, Japan was convulsed
by civil war, with violent feuds between territorial
lords which had lasted for nearly a century.
When I was four, I was sent as a hostage to
secure an alliance between my clan and the
neighboring Imagawa clan.
I was raised at their court and given the
education suitable for a nobleman.
In “1567”, I become the leader of the
Matsudaira after my father's death, allied
with Oda Nobunaga, a powerful neighbor.
I spent the next decade-and-a-half campaigning
with Nobunaga while expanding my own influence
and wealth.
I had gained a considerable military reputation.
When Nobunaga was assassinated in “1582”,
I acquired more territory, and allied with
Nobunaga's successor, Toyotomi Hideyoshi,
who sent me to govern lands in the east of
Japan, attempting to contain my growing independence.
I made my headquarters at the small port of
Edo (where Tokyo now stands).
When Hideyoshi died campaigning in Korea,
I became one of the guardians of his young
son.
The leading military figures in Japan now
began to scheme against each other and civil
war again broke out.
Another of the advisers appointed by Hideyoshi
was Ishisa Mitsunari, and it was he who formed
the Western Army against me.
In “1600”, I defeated the Western Army
in the decisive battle of Sekigahara, thereby
achieving supremacy in Japan.
In “1603” Emperor Go-Yōzei, ruler only
in name, gave me the historic title of shogun
which represents a military governor to confirm
his pre-eminence.
Japan was now united under my control.
I worked hard to restore stability to Japan
and encouraged foreign trade, which included
the exchange of gifts with James I of England
and other European rulers.
It was only later, under my successors, that
Japan effectively isolated itself from foreign
contact.
I died in “1616” and was later deified
and my mausoleum at Nikko became one of the
most important shrines in Japan.
I spent my life unifying Japan and forming
a nation that I hope now stands with pride,
power and prosperity.